---
title: Schema
---

## Overview

Drafting resumes is a long, boring, and tedious process. People often need to
spend hours nitpicking details, but errors still occur. For example, there may
be a typo in education degrees, an email format may be wrong, a course name may
be too short, etc.

Along with the [static types definitions](/docs/compiler/types), YAMLResume
provides a built-in schema which can be used for runtime validations. This is
the core that makes YAMLResume a **resume compiler**â€”YAMLResume provides
**clang-style warning/error messages** that help catch potential errors at the
early stage of resume drafting.

For example, for the following resume:

```yml lineNumbers title="invalid-resume.yml"
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://yamlresume.dev/schema.json

---
content:
  basics:
    name: Andy Dufresne
    headline: Headed for the Pacific
    phone: "(213) 555-9876"
    email: hi@pp # [!code highlight]
    url: https//ppresume.com/gallery # [!code highlight]
    summary: |
      - Computer Science major with strong foundation in data structures, algorithms, and software development
      - Pixel perfect full stack web developer, specialised in creating high-quality, visually appealing websites
      - Experiened in databases (SQL, NoSQL), familiar with server-side technologies (Node.js, Express, etc.)
      - Team player, with detail-oriented mindset and a keen eye for design and user experiences
  location:
    address: 123 Main Street
    region: California
    city: S # [!code highlight]
    country: United States
    postalCode: "95814"
  education:
    - institution: University of Southern California
      url: https://www.cs.usc.edu/
      degree: Bachelor
      area: Computer Engineering and Computer Science
      score: "3.8"
      startDate: Sep 1, 2016
      endDate:
      courses:
        - D # [!code highlight]
        - Programming Language Concepts
      summary: |
        - Developed proficiency in programming languages such as Java, C++, and Python
        - Gained hands-on experience in software development through various projects and assignments
        - Strong communication and teamwork skills acquired through group projects and presentations

layout:
  typography:
    fontSize: 13pt # [!code highlight]
```

`yamlresume validate` will give you a list of potential errors, with clear
positional information that helps pinpoint the exact location of the error,
meanwhile, with the help of
[yaml-language-server](https://github.com/redhat-developer/yaml-language-server),
you can get a better editing experience with
[auto-completion](/docs/compiler/schema/json#auto-completion), [on-hover property
docs](/docs/compiler/schema/json#property-docs), [format
validation](/docs/compiler/schema/json#format-validation), and more.

![YAMLResume validate](/static/images/docs/compiler/schema/yamlresume-validate.webp)

Under the hood, YAMLResume adopts [Zod](https://zod.dev) to validate resume data
in runtime. Zod is a TypeScript-first schema validation library that allows you
to define schemas for your resume data, which acts as a robust safety net,
ensuring that the resume data is reliable, consistent, and ready to be rendered
into a professional PDF.

Schema validation is a very powerful tool to ensure the correctness of resume
data. It can catch errors throughout the entire life cycle of resume drafting,
which is very helpful to avoid low-level mistakes from the start.

## Learn More

<Cards>
  <Card
    description="JSON Schema validation"
    href="/docs/compiler/schema/json"
    title="JSON Schema"
  />
  <Card
    description="Zod schema validation"
    href="/docs/compiler/schema/zod"
    title="Zod Schema"
  />
  <Card
    description="YAMLResume CLI validate command"
    href="/docs/cli#validate"
    title="Validate"
  />
</Cards>
